Climate triggers: Turn on/off (Labs feature) (#45342)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_triggers/climate.hvac_mode_changed.markdown

5. From the triggers shown for that target, select **Thermostat mode changed**.
6. Optionally, under **Modes**, select one or more modes you want to watch for. Leave it empty to trigger on any mode change.
7. Under **Trigger when** (see [Behavior](#behavior-with-multiple-targets)), pick **Each**, **First**, or **All** to control how the trigger behaves when multiple thermostats are targeted.
8. Under **For at least**, set how long the thermostat must remain in the new mode before the trigger fires. Leave it at zero to fire immediately.
9. Select **Save**.

### Options in the UI

{% options_ui %}
Modes:
  description: The HVAC mode or modes the thermostat must switch to for the trigger to fire. Typical modes include **Off**, **Heat**, **Cool**, **Auto**, **Dry**, **Fan only**, and **Heat/Cool**, though the exact modes available depend on your device. Default is empty, which fires on any mode change.
Trigger when:
  description: |
    When multiple thermostats are targeted, controls when the trigger fires:

    - **Each** (`any` in YAML, default): fire every time any targeted thermostat changes mode.
    - **First** (`first` in YAML): fire only on the first mode change.

>     - **All** (`last` in YAML): fire only after every targeted thermostat changes mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Each** (`any` in YAML, default): fires every time any targeted thermostat changes mode.
    - **First** (`first` in YAML): fires only on the first mode change.
    - **All** (`last` in YAML): fires only after every targeted thermostat changes mode.
```

    entity_id: climate.living_room
{% endexample %}

This fires every time the HVAC mode of `climate.living_room` changes to any mode.

To fire only when the thermostat switches to a specific mode:

{% example %}
trigger: |
  trigger: climate.hvac_mode_changed
  target:
    entity_id: climate.living_room
  options:
    hvac_mode: "heat"
{% endexample %}

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
hvac_mode:
  description: >
    The HVAC mode or modes the thermostat must switch to for the trigger to fire. Accepts a single mode string or a list of modes. Typical modes include `off`, `heat`, `cool`, `auto`, `dry`, `fan_only`, and `heat_cool`, though the exact modes available depend on your device. Omit to fire on any mode change.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: (empty, fires on any mode change)
behavior:
  description: |
    When multiple thermostats are targeted, controls when the trigger fires:

    - `any` (**Each** in the UI, default): fire every time any targeted thermostat changes mode.
    - `first` (**First** in the UI): fire only on the first mode change.

>     - `last` (**All** in the UI): fire only after every targeted thermostat changes mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `any` (**Each** in the UI, default): fires every time any targeted thermostat changes mode.
    - `first` (**First** in the UI): fires only on the first mode change.
    - `last` (**All** in the UI): fires only after every targeted thermostat changes mode.
```
